docs/usage.md, before:

To see the available options for SOMEF:

```bash
somef --help
```
and you will see the main help message:

```bash
Usage: somef [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

Options:
  -h, --help  Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  configure  Configure credentials
  describe   Running the Command Line Interface
  version    Show somef version.
```
The options to run somef are through the `describe` command:

```bash
  somef describe --help
  SOMEF Command Line Interface
Usage: somef describe [OPTIONS]

  Running the Command Line Interface

Options:
  -t, --threshold FLOAT           Threshold to classify the text  [required]
  Input: [mutually_exclusive, required]
    -r, --repo_url URL            Github Repository URL
    -d, --doc_src PATH            Path to the README file source
    -i, --in_file PATH            A file of newline separated links to GitHub
                                  repositories

  Output: [required_any]
    -o, --output PATH             Path to the output file. If supplied, the
                                  output will be in JSON

    -g, --graph_out PATH          Path to the output Knowledge Graph file. If
                                  supplied, the output will be a Knowledge
                                  Graph, in the format given in the --format
                                  option

  -f, --graph_format [turtle|json-ld]
                                  If the --graph_out option is given, this is
                                  the format that the graph will be stored in

  -h, --help                      Show this message and exit.
```

## Usage example:
The following command extracts all metadata available from [https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/](https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/). 

```bash
somef describe -r https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/ -o test.json -t 0.8
```

To obtain the same information as a JSON-LD file:

```bash
somef describe -r https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/ -g test.jsonld -f json-ld -t 0.8
```

We recommend having a high value for the `threshold` parameter, 0.8 or above.

Commit message:

Added documentation on how to launch the binder notebook

docs/usage.md, after:

To see the available options for SOMEF:

```bash
somef --help
```
and you will see the main help message:

```bash
Usage: somef [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

Options:
  -h, --help  Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  configure  Configure credentials
  describe   Running the Command Line Interface
  version    Show somef version.
```
The options to run somef are through the `describe` command:

```bash
  somef describe --help
  SOMEF Command Line Interface
Usage: somef describe [OPTIONS]

  Running the Command Line Interface

Options:
  -t, --threshold FLOAT           Threshold to classify the text  [required]
  Input: [mutually_exclusive, required]
    -r, --repo_url URL            Github Repository URL
    -d, --doc_src PATH            Path to the README file source
    -i, --in_file PATH            A file of newline separated links to GitHub
                                  repositories

  Output: [required_any]
    -o, --output PATH             Path to the output file. If supplied, the
                                  output will be in JSON

    -g, --graph_out PATH          Path to the output Knowledge Graph file. If
                                  supplied, the output will be a Knowledge
                                  Graph, in the format given in the --format
                                  option

  -f, --graph_format [turtle|json-ld]
                                  If the --graph_out option is given, this is
                                  the format that the graph will be stored in

  -h, --help                      Show this message and exit.
```

## Usage example:
The following command extracts all metadata available from [https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/](https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/). 

```bash
somef describe -r https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/ -o test.json -t 0.8
```

To obtain the same information as a JSON-LD file:

```bash
somef describe -r https://github.com/dgarijo/Widoco/ -g test.jsonld -f json-ld -t 0.8
```

We recommend having a high value for the `threshold` parameter, 0.8 (default) or above.

To see a live usage example, try our Binder Notebook: [![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/somef/HEAD?filepath=notebook%2FSOMEF%20Usage%20Example.ipynb)
